feat(docs): Independent ticketing system tutorial (#4754)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/developer/getting-started/independent-ticketing-system.mdx

---
description: Tutorial for Independent Ticketing System
tags:
  - explanation
  - tutorial
  - move
  - nft
  - sdk
  - cli
---

# Independent Ticketing System Tutorial

> In this tutorial, we will build an Independent Ticketing System utilizing the Move language for blockchain contracts and the IOTA dApp kit for the frontend application. The project begins with creating a Move package, building and deploying it on the testnet network. Once the backend contract is operational, we will develop the frontend dApp. 

Reviewer: link to the dapp kit docs please

Author: Sure.

> This step-by-step guide provides a comprehensive approach to building a decentralized ticketing system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This sentence seems redundant after the preceding paragraph

    NFTContract ->> NFTContract: Validate sender is buyer
    NFTContract ->> Blockchain: Split coin for royalty and seller payment
    NFTContract ->> Blockchain: Transfer royalty fee to creator
    NFTContract ->> Blockchain: Transfer payment to seller
    NFTContract ->> Blockchain: Public transfer of TicketNFT to buyer
    NFTContract ->> NFTContract: Delete InitiateResale object

    User ->> NFTContract: burn(nft, ctx)
    NFTContract ->> NFTContract: Validate sender is NFT owner
    NFTContract ->> Blockchain: Delete NFT object

    User ->> NFTContract: whitelist_buyer(user, nft)
    NFTContract ->> NFTContract: Add user to NFT whitelist

    User ->> NFTContract: create_TicketNFT(name, creator, owner, ... , ctx)
    NFTContract ->> NFTContract: Create a new TicketNFT (Test purpose)

    User ->> NFTContract: create_TotalSeat(value, ctx)
    NFTContract ->> NFTContract: Create TotalSeat object (Test purpose)
```
## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) >= v20.18.0
- [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) >= 10.8.2
- [iota](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/releases) >= 0.7.3

## Create a Move Package

> Run the following command to create a Move package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create a Move package:
```
Link to developer/getting-started/create-a-package

Author: noted!

```bash
iota move new independent_ticketing_system
```

## Package Overview

### [`init`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L71-L85)

> - In will create three [`shared_object`](../iota-101/objects/object-ownership/shared.mdx) type object - [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L20-L23), [`TotalSeat`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L25-L28), [`AvailableTicketsToBuy`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L38-L41)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `init` function will create three [`shared_object`](../iota-101/objects/object-ownership/shared.mdx) type objects: 
```

Reviewer: You could add a line on how the init function only runs once, and a link to /developer/iota-101/move-overview/init

Author: sure, will do in the next commit.

> - [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L20-L23) - it will contain the address of the package creator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L20-L23) will store the address of the package creator.
```

> - [`TotalSeat`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L25-L28) - it will contain the total number of seat for the event which will update as per minting the tickets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`TotalSeat`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L25-L28) will store the total number of seat for the event which will update as per minting the tickets.
```

> - [`AvailableTicketsToBuy`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L38-L41) - it will contains the array of all the nft which are minted by the  creator and are available to buy. To buy tickets first user needs to get whitelisted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`AvailableTicketsToBuy`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L38-L41)  will contain the array of all the NFTs which are minted by the creator and are available to buy. To buy tickets, the first user needs to be whitelisted. 
```

https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L235-L250
```

### [`whitelist_buyer`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L258-L260)

- This function allows the owner of an NFT to whitelist a user.  
- Once whitelisted, the user becomes eligible to purchase the NFT.

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/6c6cd27bbf402dc3e1a219a2d6e5556eb968bb59/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move#L258-L260
```

See the full example of the contract on [github](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/main/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move) .

### [Publish the Package](https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/publish)

Publish the package to the IOTA testnet using the following command:

```bash 
iota client publish
```

## Independent Ticketing System Frontend dApp

> Till now you have build the package contract of Independent ticketing system, its time to create the UI. To create the frontend DApp we use [IOTA dApp kit](../../ts-sdk/dapp-kit/index.mdx), apart from dApp kit we will also use an external package for client side routing which is react-router-dom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have built the package contract for the independent ticketing system. Now, it's time to create the UI. To create the frontend DApp, we use [IOTA dApp kit](../../ts-sdk/app/index.mdx). Apart from the dApp kit, we will also use an external package for client-side routing, which is react-[router-dom](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-router-dom).
```

### Setup the Frontend dApp

First create an initial react app using the following command

> ```shell

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```npm2yarn
````

npm create vite@latest
```

> Run the following command to setup the IOTA dApp kit in react app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to install the IOTA dApp kit, IOTA SDK, and @tanstack/react-query in the react app.
```
Please add links to each doc and to the @tanstack/react-query package, you could also explain what it will be used for.

Author: sure

> ```shell

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```npm2yarn
````

npm add @iota/dapp-kit @iota/iota-sdk @tanstack/react-query
```

### Setting Up Network Configuration

Add the following variables in the [`networkConfig.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/main/independent_ticketing_system/Frontend/src/networkConfig.ts) file:

```javascript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/4eabf7ef0c74e843d95e1658ae071df34488fd04/independent_ticketing_system/Frontend/src/networkConfig.ts#L1-L27
```

* All the shared objects mentioned above were generated during the package publishing process.

> * **Note:** To mint a ticket from the UI, ensure that the IOTA wallet account is added to the IOTA CLI. This should be mentioned in the Simple Token Transfer tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note

To mint a ticket from the UI, ensure that the IOTA wallet account is added to the IOTA CLI. This should be mentioned in the Simple Token Transfer tutorial.

:::
```

> ### Folder structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Folder Structure
```
